Chapter 1 Introduction
Bitcoin on Nodejs
Note: this book is permanently free of charge at: http://bitcoin-on-nodejs.ebookchain.org
Yishu official site: http://ebookchain.org
Official QQ group: 185046161
Wechat group: chainclub
About
This book can be used as an introductory book of the application of Node. Js to develop encryption, as well as the official document for Yishu(and Lisk,with Crypti core platform).

The source code that this book shares is Ebookcoin (Yishu coin), which is a powerful motivation of Yishu. Just like Lisk (succeeded raising more than 5 million ), Yishu is independent branch of Crypti (no longer under maintenance) and has side chain function similar to Ethereum, which can carry a variety of applications of decentralization. Therefore, whether you are studying Crypti, Lisk, Ebookcoin, or node. js, this book is worthy of reference.

The goal of Yishu is to create decentralized software for everyone and promote the sharing of human knowledge.Yishu is driven by Crypto, and unlike other competing currency products, we hope to be the first "zero-threshold" Crypto product based on practical software. Please refer to hyperlink for details.

Writing this book is also the best practice for Yishu. Yishu is simple and fast in writing and publishing. The article is currently free on github and http://bitcoin-on-nodejs.ebookchain.org.
Log
Usage
Feedback
Contributors
About This Book
Fly message
Part 1: Understand Crypto
Crypto is currency
This part is a introduction of Crypto, as well as a quick guide for anyone without knowledge towards bitcoin or Crypto.

preface
"Crypto is currency." sounds quite stupid. But if you think of its implication:  "Crypto may not be currency," you may find it interesting. In fact, many of my friends, including myself, held the latter opinion at the very beginning, and it took me some time to reach this conclusion.

The law of inertia exists not only in the material world, but also in the cognitive world. The greater our experience is, the greater the resistance to understanding new things especially towards brandy-new stuffs without eye-catching name and novel technology. It could be quite   confusing to imagine that technology is disruptive innovation and will change the world.

I am trying to write a simple, entry-level article for those who have not been exposed to cryptocurrencies to bridge human thinking and cryptocurrencies. If you get a little excited and want to keep exploring, this article is a success.

This article covers some basic concepts including: what is Crypto? How is it different from digital coins that people use every day? What are the advantages? Why are they so popular? Basically, it is about the most basic understanding I have as a programmer.

The simplest history of Crypto

Crypto is a kind of digital currency. Before bitcoin appeared, "digital currency", "virtual currency", "electronic money" already emerged, especially "virtual currency", which refers to  digitization or virtualization of “real”, “legal” currency, such as the US dollar and RMB, through online banking, alipay, etc, enabling people to pay without money.

Later, on the game platform, the concept of game currency was first put forward. Players used game currency to buy equipments. Then, websites launched various currencies to attract users. The most intuitive interpretation of those game currency, is actually "token money."

In recent years, bitcoin, a real digital currency that can be called money, came out. However, people are reluctant to distinguish it from other forms of digital coins. On the one hand, the law of inertia still exists: people around the world have rich experience in using digital currency, why is it different?

On the other hand, the resistance of acceptance is huge: to understand Crypto, people need to know about P2P network, encryption decryption, and maybe database technology, neither of which is obtained by common people.

Even if all of these technologies are available, realizing all functions and features and make it similar to a real currency is no easy. In people's thinking, the "digital currency" is a “token” rather than a currency, so the statement "Crypto is currency" could be confusing indeed.

What is Crypto?
"Crypto" can be interpreted as an encrypted electronic money (or digital currency), a typical example is the bitcoin. So let's use bitcoin to define Crypto:

Crypto is a kind of cryptographic electronic currency based on point-to-point network (P2P network), without issuing institutions and with a fixed total amount.

Notes:

(1) P2P network: this is not a new concept. The first Bit download we used was based on P2P network, which is supported by many download tools. Its advantage is "decentralization", that is, there is no central server, the files downloaded are all on the user's own computer, and the download speed is faster;

(2) Without issuing institutions: that is to say, it is not controlled by certain company, bank or state. This requires very complex mechanisms and rules in programming.

(3) Fixed total amount: this is a strategy to ensure the value of Crypto. As an old saying goes: "Scarcity equals to preciousness", anything without limit will lose its attraction. This is different from online community credits.

(4) Encryption: encryption mentioned here is not access control such as user name or password, but trading and transmission encryption. Cryptology is complex in its own right, but it's not complicated to use.

(5) Electronic currency: Encrypted currency is money. Like legal currency, it can be freely traded. So what about community credits? Are they currency? The answer is no, which will be explained in detail below.

Crypto is currency
Crypto-currency is currency, which is a bizarre conclusion that is close to "nonsense," and it's much easier to understand when we understand the history and concept definitions above. But if you're not a technologist and have trouble to understand it, please compare it with legal currency and find some common ground.

(1) Quantitative: the legal currency is usually tied to the gold behind it or the so-called GDP, which is relatively fixed (We do not discuss excess issuance here). Crypto can be counted as an absolute fixed amount, or a small amount of additional issuance (which can make up for some lost currency, etc.) to prevent inflation.

However, there is no fixed amount of digital coins provided by some websites. 

(2) Encryption: legal currency has physical security of highest level of technology and can be verified through the counterfeit detector. Encryption technology of Crypto is the equivalent of anti-counterfeiting technology, and every transaction will be strictly encryped. Cracking this encryption is theoretically possible, but not feasible financially, so it is even more difficult to counterfeit Crypto. At the same time, the verification mechanism of Crypto is much simpler, quicker and more accurate than legal currency.

However, the digital currency of some individual websites is only a series of numbers, and the administrator can modify and freeze information, and their encryption is permission control when the user logs in.

(3) Transaction: legal currency, also known as currency or general equivalent, can be exchanged with any merchant and bought anything, which is the most basic attribute of currency. The same is true for encrypted money, which you can pay to any party, and the encrypted money will arrive safely without fear of being hijacked, hacked, or reduced.

However, this is not true for digital currency of some websites: they have no such function at all, and can only be traded within the website. Some stores can trade digital currency between many websites, but those websites belong to the same owner. Of course, a website can trade with other websites if it has an agreement with a third party to set the value of its digital currency, but the essence of this transaction is still legal currency. No one is likely to sign this agreement, at least not me, because there is no oversight, no control, no guarantee of absolute trust.

Is Crypto reliable?
From discussion above, we understand how Crypto works, but we may still cast doubt on the usage of Crypto. Is it reliable? This is the first question that many people ask. The answer is yes, of course, but there are many techniques and theories involved to explain why. Fortunately, these technologies and theories are mature technologies. If you think they're reliable, the following explanation is easy to understand. Otherwise, it's hard to convince yourself that crypto-currencies are more reliable than the digital ones of some websites.

(1) Decentralization
It is easier to start with "centralization". Currently, all the major websites we visit are centralized, since we must have one or more servers to sort out the content we browse. If the server breaks down, no one will have access to either websites. In other words, centralization means that everything is controlled by an organization or company.

Decentralization, on the other hand, is based on P2P network, without any machine as the centralized server: every computer in the network is equal, and if anyone dropped down, the network will still continue. If everyone trusts the network, it will last forever, just like bitcoin networks. Specifically, please refer to "a sophisticated p2p network implementation".

This is an Crypto trading channel. Network foundation, barrier-free transaction… Anytime, anywhere, as long as you can access the Internet, you can get involved in this trading network and pay Crypto to any part of the world.

(2) Encryption and decryption

We have free routes, but are they safe? Is there any robber? What if we get hijacked or cracked? What's more, if we're on our way through private location (personal or organizational computers), there may be a hacker waiting to strike.

This requires advanced encryption and decryption technology. Fortunately, encryption and decryption technology have been  used in the Internet communities for years, safe and sound. Theoretically, it is meaningless to decrypt and crack a single node and difficult to decrypt all nodes. Moreover, the number of P2P network node is huge, so the security level of Crypto should be the highest for now.

This is the foundation of Crypto. With this tech, we can safely pay out the Crypto without fear of losing or getting stolen, and the buyer can have the basic motivation to pay for transactions. For encryption and decryption technology, please refer to "Encryption and decryption technology in node.js" and "three graphs to give you a comprehensive grasp of encryption and decryption technology".

(3) Blockchain

We can make the payment safely, but another concern comes. How can we guarantee that the seller has received it or not? What if the seller doesn't get paid? Who will guarantee this sense of trust?

The answer is blockchain. This is the originally created by Crypto, but the database technology behind is a rather simple. The essence of blockchain is transaction data stored in a database, and its structure is that each record will record the hash value of previous record, so that we can trace back to the first block.

More importantly, the database, which is distributed across P2P networks, holds a copy of each node, and everyone can access it publicly and view the transaction records. In other words, not only can both parties see the transaction result, but the entire network can see it. It is open, transparent and traceable, so you have to believe it.

This is the credit guarantee of crypto. No economic action can be achieved without trust. This originality of Crypto opens a door for public, transparent and traceable credit system, and provide infinite possibilities for companies, organizations and individuals. Later, I will continue to share the code of the blockchain of Yishu, the mysterious blockchain (to be completed).

(4) Consensus mechanism
Is it enough to have security and credibility? Another problem is, since there are so many nodes in the same database, how can we decide which node should be allowed to “write”? Moreover, crypto has fixed amount of total currency, what if a node misbehave itself and increase the total amount? 

The solution is "consensus mechanism", also an algorithms mechanisms, including work proof mechanism (POW), equity system (POS), certificate of authorization equity mechanism (DPOS) etc, which is like principle of collective decisions and rules in a discussion. This is where crypto needs to be encoded, and it is also the difficulty of crypto development.

In particular, the DPOS mechanism is basically the shareholder voting mechanism of a joint-stock company, which is the algorithm mechanism used by Yishu. Later, I will continue to share articles, including Yishu implementation of DPOS mechanism (to be completed).

This is the operation rule of Crypto. It is the place where the previous common technologies are integrated and innovated. Without understanding this part, it is impossible to talk about Crypto development.

Finally, the above techniques are interdependent and mutual supported through consensus mechanism as a whole, and this ensures the absolute safety of payments and trade without issuing institutions.

Conclusion
Imagine, what a highly autonomous network would bring us(future trend)? What can we do with Crypto (applications)? If you invest or start a business in this industry, what should you pay attention to (risk and methods)? Read the following passage: interests, the common goal of devil and angel. For answers.


Interest: the common goal of the devil and the angel
preface
The topic of this chapter covers future trends, application scenarios, and risk alerts of blockchain, offering us a more intuitive understanding of some concepts in the currency world, such as smart contracts.

Interest governs human behavior
What do people live for? Sometimes we are ambitious and  enterprising while sometimes we are humble and desireless. But in the complex real world, we are always governed by certain force, unable to break, unable to stop.

This force is the desire to pursue interest. What is interest? The on-line explanation is:

Interest refers to the material and spiritual needs of people to satisfy desires including: money, power, lust, fame, status, etc. Interest comes with desire, which origins from human genes and inevitably generate: class, politics, conflicts... interest determines everything.

Pursuit of interests comes from human nature. Human beings have three natures: urging to survive, idle, and dissatisfied. Therefore, people's interests can also be divided into three categories, the interests of survival, the interests of laziness and the interests of dissatisfaction. In short, human desires are endless. We should take interest as the fundamental factor to analyze product development, which makes it easier to understand why people are so desperate for cryptocurrencies.

Programmable "interests" transfer means

(1) Credit is the basis of transactions
When will we get to "credit"? When will you check the "credit" of others? Obviously, it's when you're ready to "trade" with someone. Credit is the premise of trading.

Economic society is a credit society. Without credit, everything will return to primitive society: barter, even self-sufficiency. If trading risks are great enough, people would give up trading to protect his/her own interests (the nature of survival) and to maximize individual interests (the nature of dissatisfaction). Credit is equally important as business itself.

(2) Credit is a process of accumulation
The establishment of credit is not a matter of time. Security, openness and traceability are the basic elements of human trust. No one trust others on the first sight, and no one can win others' trust when he/she is hiding.

The implication here is that everyone will build a "blockchain" in their own minds about the others’ credit. Once there is a transaction, we will consciously recall our experiences and evaluate the risk of the current transaction. If it's a big deal, the person may also consult a third party for further verification through “blockchain” of others.

(3) The essence of credit is to solve information asymmetry
Economics is based on an assumption: "people are rational and selfish", that is, all economic behaviors will sail towards "maximization of benefits". People can't trust you in the first place because they are "asymmetric in information" and don't have enough information to prove that they won't be "sacrificed" in your "maximization of interest".

"Information asymmetry" is manifested in three aspects: you don't know my information; you know my information but you can't identify it;you know and identify my information, but you can't control it.

Some economists conclude that information asymmetry is the main cause of market trade imbalance, it affects the social fairness, justice and market allocation efficiency. They put forward a variety of solutions, which still cannot solve the problem completely.

It wasn't until bitcoin came out that people found a way to solve this problem. Why is bitcoin so popular that everyone believes that it's valuable? Because it's absolutely believable (at least for now)! Why it is absolutely credible? Because the combination of blockchain, crypto and distributed networks makes transactions secure, public, and traceable. (see last article for more information).

Therefore, the blockchain carries credit, which does not rely on government, bank or consortium mortgage guarantee. Without government guarantees, legal currency would be worthless. Without the blockchain, bitcoin would be worthless. That's the value of the blockchain, and it's the reason that bitcoin and true cryptos are so popular.

In other words, programming realize transaction of crypto (trade)based on certain rules, and people who respect the rules will benefit, so the ultimate result is that everyone is involved, making this network bigger and bigger. That's the result of bitcoin: as people predicted that it would die, it was more and more popular.

The future trend
Before bitcoin, human beings can never fully control "interest" flow. With bitcoin, people can program the "interest" flow, and this will bring infinite possibility.

Decentralization, the basic form of human society, is the premise of individual exchange. It is not about how advanced the technology is, but how backward the existing technology is. P2P, encryption and decryption, distributed database and all other technologies are designed to solve certain problems at a certain stage. Together, they become crypto, which is closer to the origin.

Everything that goes against humanity will be overturned. Noone wants to be restricted. It is never pleasant to leave your fate at the mercy of a third party. Therefore, server - centric applications will gradually come to an end, sooner or later.

Those decentralized applications are will be the mainstream as they follow humanity. The specific name doesn't matter as long as it allows you to exchange information, money and wealth without any obstacles.

Bitcoin offers us a sample for the new world. The new era of the Internet has come although still immature. At this moment, all apps, like the original BP, cell phone or smartphone, are still so ideal that they can only be used as toys and experiments for a small number of people. But soon, it will cover over the world.

Application scenarios
Our goal is to develop products with blockchain technology, so it is helpful to understand its application scenarios. In summary, this technology can be applied in the following aspects:

(1) Transfer & payment

This should be the most basic function, many cryptos such as bitcoin are created to delimish
third party payment, so they are naturally applied to transfer, pay and borrow money. In particular, once crypto can be exchanged directly, there should be no independent third-party payment institutions in the future.

(2) Fund settlement

The structure of the blockchain is a good settlement system. As its network is spreading all over the world, cross-border payment and settlement are also becoming easy. The current banking settlement system is very complex because almost all institutions have their own accounting systems. Therefore, many institutions adopted “alliance chain” and introduced the blockchain technology, thus greatly reducing the settlement cost and duration. Globally, it is expected that the application of blockchain to B2B cross-border payments and settlement will reduce the cost of each transaction from about $26 to about $15.

(3) Smart contract

Smart contract is the trend. Its main features include: the contract terms are untamable; the validity is guaranteed; the process is transparent and open for supervision; the execution is programmable automatic without interference. Therefore, it will reform future contracts and promote a more open and fair society.

(4) Identity authentication

User authentication and recognition is the essential means to avoid illegal commercial behaviors, Banks have to invest continuously to strengthen their credit audits and customer credit investigation. Blockchain technology can promote the standardization of user identity data requirements, ensure data security and information sharing, and reduce duplicated audits. It is estimated that applying blockchain to identity authentication can save 3-5 billion dollars per year.

(5) E-commerce

Large e-commerce websites involving warehousing, logistics, trading and payment require massive cooperation and capital settlements. The current payment system is based on centralized payment systems, which causes problems such as slow fund settlements and vulnerability to hacker attacks. With blockchain technology, through multiple signature, you can simply avoid third parties, enable users payment directly, reduce operation cost and risk, and improve payment security.




